History of HTTP Versions...

HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol.

Intoduction to Network Protocols:

Protocol is a predefined set of rules that determine how data is transmitted between multiple devices in the same network.
To keep it simple let us we can think of them as something that defines the process how data is send and received.Every time 
we use internet we are using these protocols in the background.They are backbone for all the digital communications.

Example of protocols :HTTP is for browsers likeChrome,SMTP is for gmail etc.

Before we jump into in the history of HTTP versions.Let us understand what HTTP is!

Let's put our entire focus on HTTP now as we have learnt the basics behind this.
This would be very helpful and informative for anyone who would like to pursue their career 
in the field of web development.

Evolution of HTTP:

1) In 1989 Tim Berner Lee cmae out with a way to share files across various systems.HTTP is the master behind the WORLD WIDE WEB.

2) There four commonly known versions of HTTP : HTTP/0.9;HTTP/1.0;HTTP/1.1;HTTP/1.2

3) The version commonly in use today is HTTP/1.1

4) HTTP/0.9 was a simple client server basic version.It initially didnt have any name and was given later based on the
 versions to be differentiated from them.It was the first documented version of HTTP in 1995.This supports only Get Method.It only 
supports HTML files.It did not have an option for status codes for headers.

Web servers like Apache still use this protocol.

5) HTTP/1.0 : This was the first browser friendly protocol introduced in 1991.It included the concept of headers for metadata for both 
request and response.This supported multiple methods like Get,Head and Post.It enables sending more than HTML files.Status code line is
 present at the beginning of the response.It has the ability to send non html documents.

6) HTTP/1.1:This is the first officially standardized version of HTTP introduced in early 1997.It supported multiple methods compared to
 any other earlier version.It uses connection reuse and pipelining(parallel processing of requests),content negotiation(encoding languages).
Also added cache control mechanisms.

7)HTTP/2.0 : It has improved performance.It supports binary protocol rather than text.It is based on Google's SPDY protocol.Improved performance
 in data processing and pipelining of requests.

8) HTTP/3.0 :It is the upcoming version.It is not in active use yet.







