Isn't it interesting to learn what happesn in the browser (say chrome) once an URL is entered!

1) Let us suppose we enter http://www.google.com into our web browser.This URL is translated into IP address by 
Domain Name Server(DNS).
This process is called Forward Look Up.This IP address will have a Port number attached to it.

IP address : http://172.217.160.142/index.html

Note :
DNS is like the phone book of the internet.It converts user understandable URL into machine understandable format.

DNS servers are divided into zones that form a heirarchy.The first point of contact in DNS is the root server which 
returns IP address of the Top Level Domain server(.com)The top level domain server returns the IP address of the second 
level domain serveri.e. google.com.Finally thesecond level domain server which contains DNS record of the server we are 
looking for and thus returns the IP address to the server.

IP address is the unique way to identify a device connected to internet i.e. which is present in a network.
IP address is represented by four numbers and each number between 0-255.



2) Based on whether it is http or https Port 80 or Port 443 are looked upon respectively.

3) Note : Index.html is the first file that is loaded on the browser.This will be the main web page of a website.

4) The browser sends HTTP request to the server and it looks for default GET method that is used to get the response.

5) Once the request reaches the server ,Port 80 where index.html is present is looked upon.

6) Once we get resource from the serve,response reaches the browser there will be three files HTML,CSS and 
JavaScript files respectively.

7) There are three engines to process the resource from the server: Rendering Engine,Browser Engine and 
Java Script Engine.

8) HTML file is converted into tree like structure called the DOM(Document Object Model) tree by the HTML
parser present in the rendering enginer and CSS file is converted into CSSOM tree by the CSS parser 
present in the rendering engine respectively.

9)Both these trees are combined to form the layout tree.

10)Parallely javascript engine converts the .js file into tokens(smaller pieces of code)
and these tokesn are used to construct a Abstract Syntax Tree.This tree is fed to the interpreter and based on
opitmization need given by Profiler Profiler Just in Time COmpliation is done by the Java Script Engine.

11) Once the layout tree is ready,the UI Backend layer does the painting process so that the layout tree is converted into
user understandable format in the browser.

12) Finally the user presentable content is displayed to the end user on the web browser.

And yes all this happens in a fraction of seconds!















